Research Questions for project:

What languages are best to use?
Possibly python for data manipulation, and go for general concurrent actions

If we use multiple languages, how best to communicate?
can pass messages through via redis or rabbitmq
can send instructions via gRPC?

What standard would we use to store and handle files?
can prototype with json, but should use something like messagepack or protocol buffers
SQLite files for database storage

How do we aggregate multiple gpx files into a database, an entry for each point is not useful.
We dont store whole files, we store only the segments, and any datapoints that are considered to be "on" the segment

How to clean up data files to make them more useful?
Kalman filters for smoothing tracks
removing points that don't affect the line, and also don't have significant metric differentials, or elevation change


How to optimise map performance?
remove points in the front end that don't redefine the map shape 
caching: showing parts of a map that are necessary only
WebGL/GPU accelerated libraries like webgl leaflet plugin?

*** How to generate segments of a map that are meaningful to the goal? ***
Density based clustering of large file set. Can define a route as a "commonly ridden path", a useful metric
that can signal a lot of other factors, like safety and training suitability. although not the determining factor

brainstorm metrics that would be insightful, and more importantly, how to get them from data.


How to apply segments to a route to visualise the information we are looking for? 
Snap-to-path algorithm could be used to create extensions for gpx files to define each trkpoint as belonging to a segment
trkpoints that are considered to be "on" a segment that exists will be stored along with the segment information in the database.

Segments is a term used by Strava, what other term could we use for it that makes sense?
Section? Routelet? sprint? ride-piece? Lots of options

How to maintain segments over time (updates due to construction, repaving, traffic, etc?)
Initialise once (hopefully), and just update the entry, give each segment a uuid?
Update entry means periodically call the algorithm to redefine the values of a segment based on saved gpx data.

how to aggregate large amounts of training data to power the model?
Further research required

what model are we going to use?
Training model? Machine learning? Or just basic algorithms?

what will the architecture of the system look like?
Web stack: definitely a front end webpage, database, and back end. Maybe separate worker servers too?


what kind of database do we need, and what are the entities?


